The mouse from Cat & Mouse in Partnership proclaims that “Good things always come in threes”. Unfortunately for many of the other characters in Grimm’s Fairy tales, this does not always hold true. Not seven little goats, not Faithful John, not even the Princess of the Golden Palace's breast escape the significance of three. Whether being eaten, saving your King, or having your blood removed, the continued use of the number three end in tragedy for some.  All in all, 38 of the 52 tales are visited by the number three in one incarnation or another. 

While not as obvious as other works of art, the Grimm brothers injection of religion is sown throughout its stories. Some stories such as Hansel and Grethel, flat out reference God himself but most other stories are touched with more subtle themes such as the idea of “three”. In western religion, the number three is prominent throughout the Bible but is neither inherently good or evil. The number three manifests itself as evil through the three 6’s that mark the beast or divine as in the idea of the Holy Trinity.

 The continued use of the number three in Grimm’s Fairy Tales doesn’t discriminate its fortune. Both good and bad things come in three. More so than good or evil, three signifies the beginning, the middle and the end. These are the basic building blocks of storytelling. Even in modern times, we see this concept in the form of trilogies, Act I/II/III of plays and even Verse/Chorus/Verse in songwriting. 
 
 Whether your encounter ends in good fortune or tragedy, I think mouse said it best when he said “And that is the way of the world”.