---
layout: post
category : lessons
tags : [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

###Interpersonal Savvy -

1) Describe a time I may have been to raw or direct. How did that make you feel? How can I improve on this?
The one time that still stands out in my head after all this time was an interaction you had with John Bogannam in the GR. I couldn't even tell you what triggered it but your temper and choice words used with John in front of everyone was a big shock to me. I remember standing there feeling completely awkward and not sure how to react. I know you had apologized to the girls in the room after but I was never met with an apology. Now this was close to 3 years ago and that was the most raw I've seen you. 

2) How long did it take to build rapport and a relationship with me? Was it easy or difficult and why?
Since we have always worked in different areas of the business, I think it took me twice as long, probably 6 months, for our work relationship to build. It was not difficult by any means, it was just interactions where spread out over a longer period of time that say someone like Pierre who I work very closely with each and every day. I know inthe early days, you had some very vocal blowouts with other members of the family room team but you and me have always had great rapport since the beginning. I don't recall ever having even a heated debate about anything. 


3) Give an example of a time that I have seemed judgmental or arrogant towards yourself. How did that make you feel? How can I approve this?
While is has improved in the recent months, there have been numerous times that you have brought up issues with either the Genius or FRS teams with me directly insinuation it was my fault that it happened.  When I brought up the issue with that person or persons, that had also said that there was no feedback given to them directly by you. I'm more than happy to take feedback about my team and document ongoing behaviors when I'm not present but I think some of these are best handled in the moment with the individual itself. There is not much I can really do 2 days later if a genius is watching a Youtube video instead of cleaning up at the end of the night and causing you to not leave on time. 


###Decision Quality - 

1) Give me an example of a time that I may have made a quick decision without seeking help, feedback or analysis. Was that decision not the best? Had you given me feedback on how you felt about what needed to happen and did you feel my choice was incorrect or too much for the matter at hand?
I few weeks ago, there was an GB customer who brought in her iPad and worked with Krag. He spent a lot of time explaining the issue to the customer who ultimately wanted a free iPad replacement for something that was Out of Warranty and Krag had denied her for all the right reasons. She spoke with you after and you gave her the free iPad replacement regardless. Krag came up to me frustrated that she received a free iPad after all his hard work and that made me frustrated also. When Applecare+ was introduced and the crackdown on CS codes happened, one of the points that was made for Managers and Leads that the Geniuses decision should be stood behind all the way up the chain to CEO. If the Genius did their job and offered all the correct solutions and options, those decisions should be stood behind by Leads, Managers, Applecare and above. I urged Krag to provide feedback to you about this and I understand he did. I had also followed up with you on it and you had said that she told you a different story completely and thats why you had made that decision. This type of behavior feels like a betrayal of trust and undermines our ability to do our job. I think this situation could have been avoided with more communication with yourself, Krag and the customer together or just a separate conversation with Krag to get his side of the story and his recommendation of a solution. Then you could made a educated decision on if Krag did his job properly and positions all the right solutions for the customer. It would of also gave you a chance to give your thoughts and options on what else we could do to work with the customer. 

2) Describe a time you felt I made a decision based on what you felt was based on either a prejudice, historical solution or narrow perspective.
I'm a firm believer that you cannot truly understand the Family Room until you have worked in it. Ask anyone who has moved from the Red Zone to Family Room if they believe that statement is true. The reason I bring this up because any decision made on behalf of a Family Room situation is going to be decision based on prejudice, a historical solution or a narrow perspective. I don't think you can fault anyone for that. But I do think there is something that can be done. All 3 of those situations can be resolved by communication. It takes a lot for a manager to not try and be the hero and actually stop and ask all the right questions. Most of the time, you are presented with a situation not because the Genius/FRS does not know the answer, its the customer who wants to hear it from someone with "power" or thinking someone with "power" can do whatever the customer wants, not what is right for them. My advise for you on this subject is try and not be the hero, and ask for help with the decision.  As Patrick would always say, "...the why behind the how".


###Approachability-

1) Can you recall the first contact you had with me? Did I make you feel welcome? Did I seem shy or quiet?
Remembering 4+ years ago is a tall order. I'll be honest and I do not remember our first contact. I was still new to Apple at the time and very shy myself. I wouldn't say you were shy or quiet thought. 

2) Describe a time I have come off tense and/or unapproachable that may have caused you to avoid interacting with me whether on the Sales Floor, in the Back of House or the Genius Room. 
I can happily say I have never been in a situation who I did not feel I could come to you with anything. 

3) In some situations it may have seemed I was uninterested or not listening to what you had to say. How did that make you feel? What can I do to improve this perception?
This happens when you lose your temper. You need to say what you need to say and end the conversation. There is never a chance to met your concerns with an explanation or a chance for coaching. I understand being upset at times, we work in a very stressful environment. Advise for improve would to be assume positive intent and react to a situation as a leader more than a manager. See it as a possible opportunity for coaching and negative specific feedback.